In the last lecture, we saw how we can create a mixin, outsource it in a new file and then use it in
two different places,
that of course is a huge thing because it allows us to create reusable code snippets or data pieces
or whatever which we then can use across our application,
we see it here with the lists which I can now filter and so on.
Now the interesting thing is we also see in the app.vue file that was our mixin, the fruit mixin
has the data property itself that adds something to our data property,
we still seem to have that text which is exclusively in the app.vue file work correctly as we can tell
here.
So vuejs cleverly merge our mixin into our existing vue instance, the merging process generally
is such that it doesn't destroy the data in our vue instance,
so the vue instance, the vue component is the part who's always right but it tries to add new things added
by the mixin to the existing instance, that is an important takeaway that it doesn't destroy anything there.
Now it also has for some things like lifecycle hooks, the behavior that we are able to provide a lifecycle
hook in a mixin and in our component or instance and both will get executed even if it's the same name
then the order is mixin first, thereafter the component,
let me show you what I mean.
I will add a new method here to my mixin here
and it's the created method, so this created lifecycle hook. I want to print
created here and that means that now already, if I open the console and I reload, we see created twice
because we use the mixin twice, it adds the created method here,
therefore both the app.vue file and the component and the list.vue file both execute this created
lifecycle look because the mixin adds it.
Now let's say our root root component here also
or this list component,
excuse me, also has its own lifecycle hook.
So here, the same name created, we print inside list created hook.
Now with that if I save this, if I reload the app, we see created created then inside list created hook,
this was the order I was talking about, mixin first then the component,
so the component always has to last word,
it's able to override changes introduced by the mixin
because that generally as we said before follows the behavior that the mixin is not able to destroy
anything, the component always acts last.
This is how we can add mixins to components, how we can add functionality, how it cleverly gets merged
and how our component always still has the control.
Let me next dive into global mixins, what they are and when and how you might use those.